Code execution

Python JavaScript Go REST

The Gemini API code execution feature enables the model to generate and run Python code and learn iteratively from the results until it arrives at a final output. You can use this code execution capability to build applications that benefit from code-based reasoning and that produce text output. For example, you could use code execution in an application that solves equations or processes text.

Note: Gemini is only able to execute code in Python. You can still ask Gemini to generate code in another language, but the model can't use the code execution tool to run it.
Code execution is available in both AI Studio and the Gemini API. In AI Studio, you can enable code execution in the right panel under Tools. The Gemini API provides code execution as a tool, similar to function calling. After you add code execution as a tool, the model decides when to use it.

The code execution environment includes the following libraries: altair, chess, cv2, matplotlib, mpmath, numpy, pandas, pdfminer, reportlab, seaborn, sklearn, statsmodels, striprtf, sympy, and tabulate. You can't install your own libraries.

Note: Only matplotlib is supported for graph rendering using code execution.
Before you begin
Before calling the Gemini API, ensure you have your SDK of choice installed, and a Gemini API key configured and ready to use.

Get started with code execution
Input/output (I/O)
Starting with Gemini 2.0 Flash, code execution supports file input and graph output. Using these new input and output capabilities, you can upload CSV and text files, ask questions about the files, and have Matplotlib graphs generated as part of the response.

I/O pricing
When using code execution I/O, you're charged for input tokens and output tokens:

Input tokens:

User prompt
Output tokens:

Code generated by the model
Code execution output in the code environment
Summary generated by the model
I/O details
When you're working with code execution I/O, be aware of the following technical details:

The maximum runtime of the code environment is 30 seconds.
If the code environment generates an error, the model may decide to regenerate the code output. This can happen up to 5 times.
The maximum file input size is limited by the model token window. In AI Studio, using Gemini Flash 2.0, the maximum input file size is 1 million tokens (roughly 2MB for text files of the supported input types). If you upload a file that's too large, AI Studio won't let you send it.
Single turn	Bidirectional (Multimodal Live API)
Models supported	All Gemini 2.0 models	Only Flash experimental models
File input types supported	.png, .jpeg, .csv, .xml, .cpp, .java, .py, .js, .ts	.png, .jpeg, .csv, .xml, .cpp, .java, .py, .js, .ts
Plotting libraries supported	Matplotlib	Matplotlib
Multi-tool use	No	Yes
Billing
There's no additional charge for enabling code execution from the Gemini API. You'll be billed at the current rate of input and output tokens based on the Gemini model you're using.

Here are a few other things to know about billing for code execution:

You're only billed once for the input tokens you pass to the model, and you're billed for the final output tokens returned to you by the model.
Tokens representing generated code are counted as output tokens. Generated code can include text and multimodal output like images.
Code execution results are also counted as output tokens.
The billing model is shown in the following diagram: